<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="howtoguide">
    <title>How-to guide</title>
    <body>
        <p>The document explains how to write an effective How-to guide. The document is organized
            as follows:</p>
        <ul id="contentlist">
            <li><xref href="howtoguide.dita#howtoguide/introduction"/>.</li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/whyhowto">Why do I need a How-to?</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/beforewriting">Before writing a How-to.</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/examplehowto">An How-to example</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/aboutoverview">About the Overview section.</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/aboutbeforeyoubegin">About the Before you begin
                    section.</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/aboutprocedure">About the Procedure section.</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/aboutseealso">About the See also section.</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="#howtoguide/bestpractices">Best practices for writing a How-to
                    guide.</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="additionalresources.dita" format="xml">Additional
                Resources.</xref><p/></li>
        </ul>
        <section id="introduction">
            <title>Introduction</title>
            <p>How-to guides describe a set of ordered sequential steps users must complete to
                accomplish a specific task. </p>
            <p>How-to guides assume that a user has basic knowledge of the product and the user
                knows what they want to achieve.</p>
            <p>How-to guides are accessed by users who have experience with a product but need a
                specific question answered.</p>
            <p>How-to guides can benefit new users who want to solve a problem instantly provided
                the How-to is well-written and states any prerequisite knowledge required to
                complete the task.</p>
            <p>How-to guides have concise, easy-to-understand instructions that simplify complex
                actions.</p>
            <p>How-to guides are often confused with Tutorials. Tutorials are learning-oriented,
                while How-to guides are task-oriented. The table below identifies the differences
                between Tutorials and How-to guides.</p>
            <p>
                <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qdk_g5g_g5b">
                    <tgroup cols="2">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Tutorials</entry>
                                <entry>How-to</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Learning oriented </entry>
                                <entry>Task oriented</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Helps beginners or expert users learn a new feature and
                                    provide a successful learning experience</entry>
                                <entry>Helps an expert user accomplish a specific task or
                                    troubleshoot a particular issue.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Follows a carefully managed path, from the start to the
                                    end.</entry>
                                <entry>Aims for a successful result by guiding the user through a
                                    set of ordered sequential steps.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Eliminates any unexpected scenarios and provides users with a
                                    successful outcome.</entry>
                                <entry>Alerts the user to the possibility of unexpected scenarios,
                                    and provides guidance on how to deal with them.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Assumes that users do not have any practical knowledge, and
                                    must explicitly state any tools, file configurations, and
                                    conceptual details required for understanding.</entry>
                                <entry>Assumes that users have practical knowledge of tools, file
                                    configurations, and conceptual details.</entry>
                            </row> 
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </p>
        </section>
        <p/>
        <section id="whyhowto">
            <title><b>Why do I need a How-to?</b></title>
            <p>A How-to guide is often used to help users perform a task correctly. It can:</p>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_tc1_x5g_g5b">
                    <li>Guide users to solve a problem through a set of ordered sequential
                        steps.</li>
                    <li>Demonstrate the different capabilities of a product.</li>
                    <li>Generate confidence using a product.</li>
                    <li>Improve the user experience, and help reduce costs by lowering the number of
                        support requests<i>.</i><p/></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="beforewriting">
            <title><b>Before writing a How-to</b></title>
            <p>Before you start working on your How-to guide:</p>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_lpx_bvg_g5b">
                    <li>Identify the target audience. Who is expected to read the How-to? What prior
                        knowledge is anticipated? This will influence the level of general and
                        technical language of the How-to guide.</li>
                    <li>Consider the specific goal of the How-to guide. What is the How-to guide
                        aiming to accomplish? </li>
                    <li>Determine the multiple ways through which a task can be completed. Is there
                        one specific series of ordered sequential steps or are there multiple paths
                        that need explaining? </li>
                    <li>Ensure that the How-to guide offers the most reliable and safest procedure
                        to complete a task.</li>
                    <li>Take into account the different error scenarios that a user may encounter
                        while completing a task, and provide associated solutions.<p/></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="examplehowto">
            <title>An How-to guide example</title>
        </section>
        <section id="examplehowtoexample">
            <p>The following is an example How-to guide with essential Headings.</p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <p><b>Title</b></p>
        <p>How-to create a GitHub repository</p>
        <p><b>Overview</b></p>
        <p>To put a project on GitHub you will need to create a repository (also known as a
            repo).</p>
        <p><b>Before you begin</b></p>
        <p>Ensure you have logged in to GitHub.</p>
        <p><b>Procedure</b></p>
        <ol id="ol_urs_mc3_g5b">
            <li>In the top left corner, select New.</li>
            <li>Type a short, memorable name for your repository. For example, "hello-world".</li>
            <li>Optionally, add a short description of your repository. For example, "My first
                repository in GitHub."</li>
            <li>Choose a repository visibility. You can use Public at this stage for
                convenience.</li>
            <li>Select <b>Initialize this repository with a README.</b></li>
            <li>Click <b>Create repository.</b></li>
        </ol>
        <p>You have succssfully created your first repository, and initialized it with a README
            file. </p>
        <p><b>See also</b></p>
        <p>For more information about repository visibility, see "<xref
                href="https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/about-repositories#about-repository-visibility"
                format="html" scope="external">About repositories.</xref>" </p>
        <p/>
        <section id="aboutoverview">
            <title><b>About the Overview section</b></title>
            <p>Use this section to provide the following:</p>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_jn5_vvg_g5b">
                    <li>A clear description of the problem or the task that the user can solve or
                        complete in this How-to. Here are some examples:<ul id="ul_kn5_vvg_g5b">
                            <li>This guide explains how to comment on a pull request.</li>
                            <li>This guide explains how to create or delete a branch on GitHub.</li>
                            <li>This guide explains how to create a repository.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>Optionally, explain the scenario under which this How-to guide can be used.
                        For example, in a guide for <b>creating a pull request from fork</b>, inform
                        users straightaway that if they do not have write permissions to the
                        repository, they must fork the repository before creating a pull request.
                            <p/><p>If your main task includes multiple sub-tasks that can be used
                            under different scenarios, you can create a table as shown below and
                            hyperlink the different How-to guides available for the task.</p><p>
                            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qml_zvg_g5b">
                                <tgroup cols="2">
                                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                                    <thead>
                                        <row>
                                            <entry>Guide</entry>
                                            <entry>Scenario</entry>
                                        </row>
                                    </thead>
                                    <tbody>
                                        <row>
                                            <entry>Create a pull request from fork</entry>
                                            <entry>The user does not have write permission to the
                                                repo.</entry>
                                        </row>
                                        <row>
                                            <entry>Create a pull request </entry>
                                            <entry>The user has write permission to the
                                                repo.</entry>
                                        </row>
                                    </tbody>
                                </tgroup>
                            </table>
                        </p></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <p/>
        <section id="aboutbeforeyoubegin">
            <title><b>About the Before you begin section</b></title>
            <p>In this section describe what your users need to know, or need to have, before they
                attempt the How-to. By stating the requirements up-front, you prevent your users
                from getting halfway through the guide and discovering that they need to go and read
                other documentation before they can continue.</p>
            <p>Use this section to communicate any prerequisites for this How-to, such as:</p>
            <ul id="ul_lvg_2wg_g5b">
                <li>Familiarity with the application.</li>
                <li>Software and tools needed.</li>
                <li>Environments to set up and configure.</li>
                <li>Authentication and authorization information. </li>
                <li>Other guides or information to read.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>For easy understanding, consider classifying the prerequisites into different
                categories such as software prerequisites and hardware prerequisites.</p>
            <p>Also, include other important information here, such as known issues or bugs.</p>
            <p>Optionally, provide any helpful cues that signal to a user that they are probably not
                in the right place and provide them with more suitable options. For example, </p>
            <p>If this document does not help you resolve your issue then &lt;provide link to a
                relevant article> or specify any contact support information.</p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="aboutprocedure">
            <title><b>About the Procedure section</b></title>
            <p>The Procedure section is where you describe the steps the user needs to do to
                accomplish a task. Use an ordered list structure to document the How-to steps. </p>
            <p>1. {Write the step heading here. Start with a verb.}</p>
            <p> {Optional: Explanatory text}</p>
            <p> {Optional: Code sample or screenshot that helps your users complete this step}</p>
            <p> {Optional: Result}</p>
            <p> </p>
            <p>The first element is the step itself, for example, "Enter a name for your new
                repository." When writing steps, keep these tips in mind:</p>
            <ul id="ul_w2x_gwg_g5b">
                <li>For step headings, start with a bare infinitive also known as plain form or base
                    form verbs. For example, connect, set up, build. </li>
                <li>Do not use use the <i>-ing</i> form of the verb because it may have multiple
                    meanings.</li>
                <li>Express the heading as a complete statement. For example, instead of writing,
                    "Set up access", you should write, "Set up access to a Cloud Storage
                    bucket."</li>
            </ul>
            <p>Next, optionally provide some background information about the task so users know
                what they are about to do and why. </p>
            <p>Remember to orient your users when guiding them through each step. If they need to
                open a particular file or dialog to complete the task, provide that information
                first.</p>
            <p>Optionally, you can add a code sample or screenshot after the explanatory text,
                depending on the type of How-to you are writing. Screenshots are a great way to show
                specific parts of the screen you are referring to in a step.</p>
            <p>If you are including code samples, make sure to add comments to your code to help
                learners understand what each part of the code does. Additionally, make sure your
                code samples work, as learners will copy and paste your code to use in their own
                projects.</p>
            <p>The last, and optional, element in a step, is the result. Provide examples of sample
                output such as return data, a message so that the users can validate that they
                performed the step correctly or not. In a How-to guide for GitHub, for example, you
                can describe what happens after a user clicks the "Create repository" button.</p>
            <p/>
            <p>Here is an example step:</p>
            <p>Step 1. Enter a name for your new repository. </p>
            <p>Good repository names are short and self-explanatory. Avoid repository names with
                three or more words.</p>
            <p>After you click "Create repository", GitHub creates your repository and the main page
                for the repository is displayed.</p>
            <p>If needed, you can add sub-steps below a primary step. Make sure to indent the
                sub-step one tab space over if you're using Markdown:</p>
            <p>1. Create a new pull request.</p>
            <p> a. Navigate to the main page of your repository. </p>
            <p> b. Under your repository name, click **Pull requests**.</p>
            <p> By default, all open pull requests are displayed.</p>
            <p> c. ....</p>
            <p/>
            <p>If you are including code samples in your steps, make sure they are also indented
                correctly:</p>
            <ol id="ol_x2x_gwg_g5b">
                <li>
                    <p>Set your Git username for your repository.</p>
                    <p> You can change the name that is associated with your Git commits using the
                        git config command.</p>
                    <p/>
                </li>
            </ol>
            <p> {git config user.name "Dakota Everson"}</p>
            <p> </p>
        </section>
        <section id="aboutseealso">
            <title><b>About the See also section</b></title>
            <p>It's likely that during the course of explaining a multi-task process you will touch
                on other topics related to the current one, but not strictly required. This section
                is useful to provide your users with suggestions on further reading without
                interrupting the topic covered by the current document. An example might be setting
                up an email client, which requires working credentials to an active email address.
                The reader need not know how to install and run their own email server in order to
                acquire that access, although this is potentially useful. The link to documentation
                on running a local mail server could therefore be included in the "See also"
                section.</p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="bestpractices">
            <title><b>Best practices for writing a How-to guide</b></title>
            <p>Consider the following when writing a How-to guide:</p>
            <ol id="ol_qbg_wwg_g5b">
                <li>Use active verbs. </li>
                <li>Prepare your users for the unexpected, alert the user to its possibility and
                    provide guidance on how to deal with it. For example, include callouts such as
                    warning, caution, or note to communicate important information while completing
                    a task.</li>
                <li>Inform your users of all the alternatives available to complete a task. Use
                    conditional imperatives. If you want x, do y. To achieve w, do z. </li>
                <li>Do not explain concepts. </li>
                <li>Do not provide too many links within the guide. Keep your users on a single page
                    as much as possible. Instead provide links to additional resources at the bottom
                    of the page.</li>
                <li>Avoid writing guides for edge cases at the outer boundaries of your product’s
                    capability.</li>
            </ol>
            <p/>
            <p><xref href="additionalresources.dita">Link to Additional Resources.</xref></p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="additionalresources">
            <title><b>Additional Resources</b></title>
            <p>Bhatti, J., Corleissen, Z.S., Lambourne, J., Nunez, D. And Waterhouse, H. 2021<i>.
                    </i><xref href="https://docsfordevelopers.com/" format="html" scope="external"
                        ><i>Docs for Developers: An Engineer’s Field Guide to Technical Writing 1st
                        ed. Edition</i></xref><i>.</i> Apress</p>
            <p>Diátaxis. 2017. <i>A systematic framework for technical documentation authoring.
                    </i><xref href="https://diataxis.fr" format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://diataxis.fr</xref></p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="usefullinks">
            <title>Useful links</title>
            <p>Current How-to template</p>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/tree/dev/how-to"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/tree/dev/how-to</xref></p>
            <p>Diátaxis. framework</p>
            <p><xref href="https://diataxis.fr/tutorials-how-to/" format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://diataxis.fr/tutorials-how-to/</xref></p>
            <p>Quickstart template</p>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/tree/dev/quickstarts"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/tree/dev/quickstarts</xref></p>
            <p>The Good Docs contributing guide</p>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md</xref>
            </p>
            <p>Tutorial template</p>
            <p><xref href="https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/tree/dev/tutorial"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://github.com/thegooddocsproject/templates/tree/dev/tutorial</xref></p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="sampleguides">
            <title>Sample How-to guides</title>
            <p>Anbox Cloud. How to create an application</p>
            <p><xref href="https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/application/create" format="html"
                    scope="external">https://anbox-cloud.io/docs/howto/application/create</xref></p>
            <p>Charmed Kubeflow. How to install Kubeflow v1.4</p>
            <p><xref href="https://charmed-kubeflow.io/docs/install" format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://charmed-kubeflow.io/docs/install</xref></p>
            <p>Divio How-to guides</p>
            <p><xref href="https://documentation.divio.com/how-to-guides/" format="html"
                    scope="external">https://documentation.divio.com/how-to-guides/</xref></p>
            <p>Google Cloud Resource Manager Documentation</p>
            <p><xref href="https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/how-to" format="html"
                    scope="external"
                >https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/how-to</xref></p>
            <p>Google Compute Engine documentation</p>
            <p><xref href="https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/how-to" format="html"
                    scope="external">https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/how-to</xref></p>
            <p>Google developer documentation style guide/. Procedures.</p>
            <p><xref href="https://developers.google.com/style/procedures" format="html"
                    scope="external">https://developers.google.com/style/procedures</xref></p>
            <p>openstack How-to guides</p>
            <p><xref href="https://docs.openstack.org/charm-guide/latest/admin/index.html"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://docs.openstack.org/charm-guide/latest/admin/index.html</xref></p>
            <p>The jupyter-book repository!</p>
            <p><xref href="https://jupyterbook.org/en/stable/contribute/intro.html" format="html"
                    scope="external"
                >https://jupyterbook.org/en/stable/contribute/intro.html</xref></p>
            <p>Ubuntu Core How-to guides</p>
            <p><xref href="https://ubuntu.com/core/docs/how-to" format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://ubuntu.com/core/docs/how-to</xref></p>
            <p> </p>
            <p/>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
