<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="Installation_guide">
    <title>Installation Guide</title>
    <shortdesc>This is a template explaining how to write a good Installation Guide.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>Explain the purpose of the Guide.</p>
            <p>{The Installation Guide explains how to install xx software version xx on xx devices
                with operating system xx.}</p>
            <p>Explain who should use this Guide.</p>
            <p>{The Installation Guide is intended for all users of xx software, and assumes you
                have some knowledge of the operating system xx.}</p>
            <p>Explain what is described in the Guide.</p>
            <p>{The Installation Guide describes the installation and upgrade of xx software.}</p>
            <p/>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd><b>Installation</b></cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>This section itemizes the steps to be taken for successful installation. Use
                        numbered lists. Start each statement with an active verb in its base form
                        (e.g., connect, choose). Start statement with a preposition if installation
                        step is specific (e.g, On Apple TV, …, In MacOS, …). If there are different
                        options, such as installing new software or upgrading existing software,
                        start a new list. </p>
                    <p>{</p>
                    <p>1. Download the software update from www.xxxxx</p>
                    <p>2. Make sure you are running the latest version of MacOS.</p>
                    <p>3. On Apple TV, open Settings.</p>
                    <p>4. xxx</p>
                    <p>}</p>
                    <p/>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd><b>System requirements</b></cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Identify the system requirements for this installation. The requirements are
                        a bullet list.</p>
                    <p>{</p>
                    <ul id="ul_rck_ytf_dvb">
                        <li>MacOS 12.4</li>
                        <li>Apple TV 3.1</li>
                    </ul>
                    <p>}</p>
                    <p/>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd><b>Known problems</b></cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Describe known problems followed by a resolution.</p>
                    <p/>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd><b>Post installation</b></cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Describe what needs to be done after installation.</p>
                    <p>{After successfully installing the software, delete the installation
                        file.}</p>
                    <p/>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd><b>Feedback</b></cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Add contact information for feedback or support. This is usually a link to a
                        generic Feedback page. </p>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
