<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task">
    <title>How-to synchronize OxygenXML DITA files to GitHub</title>
    <shortdesc>This is my verified procedure for synchronizing an OxygenXML DITA Project to GitHub.
        It is quite unintuitive but I found this is the most effective procedure. <b>IMPORTANT:
        </b>When creating your OxygenXML Project it is very important that you first organise your
        folders. Your DITA files must be loacted within the relevant folder. Also, any images or
        videos must be within the same Project folder. Do not use the dedicated folder for
        additional Projects and certainly do not move folders once set up. Finally, when creating
        new files in OxygenXML, ensure they are located within the relevant folder and have
        easy-to-remember file names.  </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>First create a GitHub reposoitory, then upload files, and finally synchronize from
            OxygenXML. <p/></context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a new account at GitHub.com</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Create a new repository. Click the green <b>New</b> icon in the top left corner
                    of the webpage.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Name your Repository. You are advised to keep it short and memorable.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Type a short description of the intended content. This will help you and others
                    recall the content as you create more repositories in future. </cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Select <b>Public</b>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Select <b>Add a README</b> file.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Select <b>Create repository</b>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>You have successfully created a new repository. </cmd>
                <info>
                    <p/>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
    <task id="task_jjz_4h5_g5b">
        <title>How-to Add files to your repository.</title>
        <taskbody>
            <steps id="steps_apv_h35_g5b">
                <step>
                    <cmd>In your GitHub repository, select <b>Add file</b>.</cmd>
                </step>
                <step>
                    <cmd>From the drop-down menu, selct <b>Upload files</b>.</cmd>
                </step>
                <step>
                    <cmd>Select <b>choose your files</b>.</cmd>
                </step>
                <step>
                    <cmd>Locate the relevent OxygenXML Project folder on your computer and select
                        all the files.</cmd>
                </step>
                <step>
                    <cmd>Click the green icon <b>Commit changes</b>. In this instance, Commit
                        directly to the main branch.</cmd>
                </step>
                <step>
                    <cmd>Your OxygenXML Project is now on GitHub. </cmd>
                    <info>
                        <p/>
                    </info>
                </step>
            </steps>
        </taskbody>
        <task id="task_nf4_2j5_g5b">
            <title>How to synch Oxygen XML files to your GitHub repository.</title>
            <taskbody>
                <steps id="steps_rdg_hj5_g5b">
                    <step>
                        <cmd>In OxygenXML click the Git drop down menu and select <b>Show
                                staging</b></cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>You will need to make changes to a DITA file such as adding text.</cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>Save the file, and the file will appear in the <b>Unstaged files</b>
                            pane of  <b>Git Staging</b>.</cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>Click the <b>Stage all </b>icon (two arrows facing downwards). The file
                            will then move to the <b>Staged files</b> pane.</cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>Type a short message in the <b>Commit message</b> pane. This is used to
                            remind you of the edits you made. </cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>The <b>Commit</b> button is now visible (not greyed out).</cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>Click the <b>Commit</b> button.</cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>Finally, at the top of the <b>Git Staging</b> panes, click the
                                <b>Push</b> arrow (it is facing upwards) to push tyour changes to
                            your GitHub repository. </cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>You have successfully synchronized your OxygenXML Project to
                            GitHub.</cmd>
                    </step>
                    <step>
                        <cmd>From this point onwards, you only need to use <b>Git Staging</b> after
                            you have made changes in your OxyGenXML Project.</cmd>
                    </step>
                </steps>
            </taskbody>
        </task>
    </task>
</task>
